# The Motion of Satellite Galaxies in a Cold Dark Matter Universe

*Data courtesy of Professor Tereasa G. Brainerd of Boston University's Institute for Astrophysical Research*

Cold Dark Matter (CDM) has been a very successful theory on length scales in the universe that are bigger than the sizes of typically large and bright galaxies such as our own Milky Way. The motivation behind this project was to use the motions of satellite galaxies, orbiting around large and bright host galaxies, as a test of CDM in situations where it hasn’t been tested well to date, or has been problematic in reproducing the observed universe. This project measured the distribution of the velocities of the satellite galaxies relative to their hosts. This was done by creating seven histograms of the relative velocity differences (in the x, y and z directions) between the hosts and the satellites, and subdividing them by a 3D distance. The results show that the distributions are well-fitted by Gaussians, and that the velocity dispersion (as determined by Gaussian statistics) decreases monotonically with the host-satellite 3D distance. The next steps are to determine how the satellite velocity dispersion depends on the mass of the host galaxies, satellite galaxies and the projected host-satellite distance. We will then compare these results to the exact same results that have been calculated using the dark matter particles that surround the host galaxies, leading us to determine whether the motion of satellites galaxies, with respect to their hosts, trace the motions of dark matter particles. If they do, then observers should attempt to use the motions of satellite galaxies to inform us about the motion of dark matter.
